With that we get a basic introduction to tests and components and services and where we inject services
into components but we haven't really talked about this async thing here and our service thus far was
synchronous.
So there was no asynchronous task like you might have had when reaching out to a web server.
Therefore in the shared folder I create a new service that data service and this service will now actually
expose asynchronous function which you want to test.
So in hirable also export does class data service and it should have a get details method.
Now get details will have a promise to each result promise which is a new promise and my idea you won't
like Promise years or all it will get read but it will work where we pass resolve and reject as arguments
to the code that we're passing to the promise constructor and that we basically had a time out which
will expire after let's say let's make it one and a half second.
And here I want to execute a number of functions of course where I simply resolve data so I pass back
a string holding data.
And outside of this concept of just promise I will simply return this promise.
So get details returns a promise and this promise will resolve after one and a half seconds.
Now I want to testis back in the user component which is where I want to use it.
I will first provide the data service here and I will set up a data property here to data which of course
is a string and the constructor of one injected.
So I will have nice data servers and check the tears at to inject I was able to do so and keep in mind
we can always get the instance by accessing the injectors as we did before.
Well back to these spec fall here to write some tests.
Thus far we have tests using our user service which is synchronous.
No one to fetch my data asynchronously.
So first let's do a normal test and see if this works but it probably won't work since I will name it
.
It shouldn't vegetate as successfully if not called asynchronously.
This is not really a great task because here are testing features of the testing package and not of
my app but I want to show the difference between this way of setting up tests and using the async function
here which will use in a second.
So right now we always pass the function as the second argument here.
And inside of this bag I would then execute my standard code get access to my application here and now
I somehow need to access does get detailed method which happens asynchronously.
The thing is I don't necessarily want to execute the real get details method because this method might
reach out to a server in a real application.
You don't.
When I reach out to the server all the time when testing it.
Instead you kind of want to fake it.
You want to overwrite it.
You want to create your fake implementation which still is asynchronous but does something else or does
it at least not reach out and provide simply some dummy data the real service would also give you back
.
So therefore I will create a new world Spight and I will use spy on.
And this is another function provided by the testing environment so nothing less specific testing function
.
And here we Fris tell on what you want to spy.
Well the thing I want to spy on is data service which I can get access to like I did here for the users
service by using the technology injector.
So let's add it here.
But now of course let's call it data service and get access to the data service at the data service
import for that too.
And then we use this data service to spy on the Get details method there you pass it as a string but
this name here has to match the method name you want to spy on.
Well with this set up what I can do now is I can change something with and and then say return value
.
So we spy on that means we get informant when everich get details get executed gets executed.
So this is what spy on means we listen to it and whenever it gets executed when running a test we won't
execute it.
Instead we will return a value on our own.
Now de-value we will return.
Here is Brahmas resolve.
Deda.
Now what this does behind the scenes is it will execute the code the asynchronous code but it will eventually
give us back our own data and not what is asynchronous task would have given us.
It will still run in an asynchronous fashion though.
So what I can do here is I-Spy on it.
I get this data.
I can now run the change detection to update my while component.
After I got this state a here and then I want to check if this worked.
So I will say expect and I expect my app data field to be undefined.
Normally I would expect it to be something else because in my user component here in an engine in it
I will now use my data service to get the details.
And then this is here a promise then used to date I get back.
Who said this data equal to the date I get back.
That is what I would normally expect to happen so that once promised resolves the day that a promised
passes me is stored in the state property here in the test.
I'm saying that I expect it to be undefined and the reason why I do expect that is because I know that
this will kind of fail and I'll come back to this in a second and before doing so though we should set
data here of type string to avoid compilation error.
So if an hour test is we get success and that means it does not give us d normally expect resolved we
normally expect the result would be to get data right.
If I now write this you will see it fails.
The reason for that being that it indeed is undefined.
So I'm just writing the average case to have a success test here but undefined is not really what we
would expect runtime.
We would expect data to be undefined at the beginning but to be data is what we return here.
A string of name or of content data in the end.
So how can we test such a asynchronous task where the stage changes during the runtime.
Let's write a second test for this.
I will copy the first one here but here I expected so it should fetch the data successfully if called
asynchronously.
And here I will generally use the same code.
It will adjust it but it will use the async function here.
That function we're importing from the testing packaging law to pack testing package and I will wrap
my callback with that function here.
Now what this does is it creates a kind of asynchronous tasking environment for angular 2 if fakes it
.
It's not really asynchronous but it allows us to run asynchronous tasks there and then that too is aware
that there are asynchronous tasks and is able to handle them as if it would handle them in a real application
context where they are indeed also asynchronous.
To do this I need to add one thing though.
After detecting the changes I need to use my fixture and execute when stable.
This function on the fixture allows me to react to all asynchronous tasks are finished.
So here I can then execute the then function of my promise which well takes a callback to be executed
once that is done and inside of this callback I will expect something to happen.
So once the asynchronous task has been finished and there I expect it to be data.
And now with that nested in there I can now save this and now we get nine successful tests because now
we're waiting for asynchronous tasks to finish.
It's not really happening asynchronous we're faking it here.
Remember we're returning our own value but with async wrapping this callback we're telling too hey we
do have some kind of asynchronous task even though the promise resolves instantly.
It still is a promise.
Wrapping some values and not resolved or not de-value itself.
So with async we're now able to call when stable here and wait for our enviroment to stabilize.
For all asynchronous tasks to finish and to therefore successfully access to data at a state it would
be in a real environment.